Add documentation for the dotnet build -t|--target option to dotnet-build.md. (#53673)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tools/dotnet-build.md

description: The dotnet build command builds a project and all of its dependencies.

> ms.date: 09/24/2025

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 05/18/2026
```

    [--no-self-contained] [-o|--output <OUTPUT_DIRECTORY>] [--os <OS>]
    [-p|--property:<PROPERTYNAME>=<VALUE>] [-r|--runtime <RUNTIME_IDENTIFIER>]
    [--sc|--self-contained] [--source <SOURCE>]
    [-t|--target:<TARGET>]

>     [--tl:[auto|on|off]] [ --ucr|--use-current-runtime]

Reviewer 2: Target should appear on the previous line to save space

  The URI of the NuGet package source to use during the restore operation.

- **`-t|--target:<TARGET>`**

>   Specifies one or more MSBuild targets to run during the build instead of the default target. Specify multiple targets by separating them with a semicolon or comma, or by repeating the option for each target. Corresponds to the MSBuild -target option. Common targets include Build (default), Clean, and Rebuild. For more information, see [MSBuild Targets](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-targets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Specifies one or more MSBuild targets to run during the build instead of the default target. Specify multiple targets by separating them with a semicolon or comma, or by repeating the option for each target. Corresponds to the MSBuild `-target` option. Common targets include `Build` (default), `Clean`, and `Rebuild`. For more information, see [MSBuild Targets](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-targets).
```

  The URI of the NuGet package source to use during the restore operation.

- **`-t|--target:<TARGET>`**

>     Specifies one or more MSBuild targets to run during the build, instead of the default target. Multiple targets can be specified by separating them with a semicolon or by repeating the option. Corresponds to the MSBuild `-target` option. Common targets include `Build` (default), `Clean`, and `Rebuild`. For more information about targets, see [MSBuild Targets](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-targets).

Reviewer 2: This is incorrectly indented. It should align to the start of the bullet text which actually the \*. Comma is also supported.

```suggestion
  Specifies one or more MSBuild targets to run during the build instead of the default target. Specify multiple targets by separating them with a semicolon or comma, or by repeating the option for each target. Corresponds to the MSBuild -target option. Common targets include Build (default), Clean, and Rebuild. For more information, see MSBuild Targets.
```

Author: This comment suggest an alternative word usage and removing the link to the ms-build targets, right?

Reviewer 2: @classyk12 Correct, but I accidentally removed the link, please restore that!

Author: restored now

>     Specifies one or more MSBuild targets to run during the build, instead of the default target. Multiple targets can be specified by separating them with a semicolon or by repeating the option. Corresponds to the MSBuild `-target` option. Common targets include `Build` (default), `Clean`, and `Rebuild`.. For more information about targets, see [MSBuild Targets](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-targets).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Specifies one or more MSBuild targets to run during the build, instead of the default target. Multiple targets can be specified by separating them with a semicolon or by repeating the option. Corresponds to the MSBuild `-target` option. Common targets include `Build` (default), `Clean`, and `Rebuild`. For more information about targets, see [MSBuild Targets](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-targets).
```

```dotnetcli
dotnet build -t:Clean
dotnet build -t:Rebuild

> dotnet build -t:Clean;Build

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
dotnet build -t Clean
dotnet build -t Rebuild
dotnet build -t Clean;Build
```
As given in the synopsis above. When the `:` is needed then L26 should be
```diff
-[-t|--target <TARGET>]
+[-t|--target:<TARGET>]
```

>   ```

Reviewer 4: > Common targets include `Build` (default), `Clean`, and `Rebuild`

I wonder if there are better examples here. All these three are already handled by the `dotnet` CLI through `dotnet build`, `dotnet build --no-incremental` and `dotnet clean`.

Perhaps a better example in this doc would be to show how you can use `-t` to run custom targets. For example, just `dotnet build -t:MyCustomTarget`, where the name `MyCustomTarget` is clearly a placeholder for an actual value.

Author: Great catch. You're right that Build/Clean/Rebuild don't showcase the value of the **-t** flag since they're already CLI commands. I've updated the examples to real life examples like -t:GenerateApiClients and -t:RunTests. These examples demonstrate real scenarios where custom targets extend the build beyond what **dotnet build** alone can do.

>   ```dotnetcli
>   dotnet build -t:RunTests
>   dotnet build -t:GenerateApiClients
>   dotnet build -t:RunCodeGeneration
>   ```

Reviewer 2: We could showcase the different styles

```suggestion
  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet build -t:"Clean;RunTests"
  dotnet build -t:Clean -t:GenerateApiClients
  dotnet build -t:RunCodeGeneration
  ```
```

- Build the project and set version 1.2.3.4 as a build parameter using the `-p` [MSBuild option](#msbuild):

>    ```dotnetcli

Reviewer 3: Nit: undo

  dotnet build -p:Version=1.2.3.4
  ```

- Run the `Clean` target to remove previous build outputs:

    ```dotnetcli

>     dotnet build -t:Clean

Reviewer 3: Same as https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/53673#discussion_r3217491960
